[Docs] add: 8bit inference with pixart alpha (#5814)
huggingface/diffusers: docs/source/en/api/pipelines/pixart.md

</Tip>

> ## Running the `PixArtAlphaPipeline` in under 8GB GPU VRAM

Reviewer: Let's put this content into a Tips section (like how it is [here](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/main/en/api/pipelines/audioldm2#tips)) so it is more aligned with the other model API docs. I think this'll improve the docs experience since all the pages will be consistent and users know what to expect if they're going from one page to the next

Author: I don't think this section is a good candidate to be put as a tip, though. Taking [this](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/main/en/api/pipelines/audioldm2#tips) as an example, I see all the points as advice (or tips). They very well align with what's supposed to be a tip. But I don't think execution under constrained environments can be a tip.

Reviewer: Good point, maybe we can put it in a Usage section then? I think it's better to have something more generalizable to keep the pages consistent (like [DeepFloyd IF](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/main/en/api/pipelines/deepfloyd_if#usage) or [Pix2Pix](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/main/en/api/pipelines/pix2pix_zero#usage-example)).

> ## Running the `PixArtAlphaPipeline` in under 8GB GPU VRAM

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Inference with under 8GB GPU VRAM
```

> It is possible to run the [`PixArtAlphaPipeline`] under 8GB GPU VRAM by loading the text encoder in 8-bit numerical precision. Let's walk through a full-fledged example. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the [`PixArtAlphaPipeline`] with under 8GB GPU VRAM by loading the text encoder in 8-bit precision. Let's walk through a full-fledged example. 
```

> First, install the `bitsandbytes` library:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, install the [bitsandbytes](https://github.com/TimDettmers/bitsandbytes) library:
```

```bash
pip install -U bitsandbytes
```

Then load the text encoder in 8-bit:

```python
from transformers import T5EncoderModel
from diffusers import PixArtAlphaPipeline

text_encoder = T5EncoderModel.from_pretrained(
    "PixArt-alpha/PixArt-XL-2-1024-MS",
    subfolder="text_encoder",
    load_in_8bit=True,
    device_map="auto",

)
pipe = PixArtAlphaPipeline.from_pretrained(
    "PixArt-alpha/PixArt-XL-2-1024-MS",
    text_encoder=text_encoder,
    transformer=None,
    device_map="auto"
)
```

Now, use the `pipe` to encode a prompt:

```python
with torch.no_grad():
    prompt = "cute cat"
    prompt_embeds, prompt_attention_mask, negative_embeds, negative_prompt_attention_mask = pipe.encode_prompt(prompt)

del text_encoder
del pipe

> flush()

Reviewer: Should this be in the code snippet below where you implement `flush()`? It's being used here without being implemented yet

Author: I think it's okay this way. Because this way, we immediately make our point clear to the readers and don't introduce any distractions.

Author: Got it. Reworded.

```

> `flush()` is just a utility function to clear the GPU VRAM and is implemented like so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Free up some GPU VRAM with the `flush()` utility function:
```

```python
import gc 

def flush():
    gc.collect()
    torch.cuda.empty_cache()
```

> Then compute the latents providing the prompt embeddings as inputs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then compute the latents with the prompt embeddings as inputs:
```

```python
pipe = PixArtAlphaPipeline.from_pretrained(
    "PixArt-alpha/PixArt-XL-2-1024-MS",
    text_encoder=None,
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,
).to("cuda")

latents = pipe(
    negative_prompt=None, 
    prompt_embeds=prompt_embeds,
    negative_prompt_embeds=negative_embeds,
    prompt_attention_mask=prompt_attention_mask,
    negative_prompt_attention_mask=negative_prompt_attention_mask,
    num_images_per_prompt=1,
    output_type="latent",
).images

del pipe.transformer
flush()
```

> Notice that while initializing `pipe`, you're setting `text_encoder` to `None` so that it's not loaded. 

Reviewer: This could be a `Tip`

```suggestion
<Tip>

Notice that while initializing `pipe`, you're setting `text_encoder` to `None` so that it's not loaded.

</Tip>
```

> Once the latents are computed, pass it off the VAE to decode into a real image:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the latents are computed, pass it off to the VAE to decode into a real image:
```

```python
with torch.no_grad():
    image = pipe.vae.decode(latents / pipe.vae.config.scaling_factor, return_dict=False)[0]
image = pipe.image_processor.postprocess(image, output_type="pil")
image.save("cat.png")
```

> All of this, put together, should allow you to run [`PixArtAlphaPipeline`] under 8GB GPU VRAM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By deleting components you aren't using and flushing the GPU VRAM, you should be able to run [`PixArtAlphaPipeline`] with under 8GB GPU VRAM.
```

![](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/pixart/8bits_cat.png)

> Find the script [here](https://gist.github.com/sayakpaul/3ae0f847001d342af27018a96f467e4e) that can be run end-to-end to report the memory being used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want a report of your memory-usage, run this [script](https://gist.github.com/sayakpaul/3ae0f847001d342af27018a96f467e4e).
```

<Tip warning={true}>

> Text embeddings computed in 8-bit can have an impact on the quality of the generated images because of the information loss in the representation space induced by the reduced precision. It's recommended to compare the outputs with and without 8-bit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Text embeddings computed in 8-bit can impact the quality of the generated images because of the information loss in the representation space caused by the reduced precision. It's recommended to compare the outputs with and without 8-bit.
```

del text_encoder
del pipe
flush()
```

Free up some GPU VRAM with the `flush()` utility function:

```python
import gc 

def flush():
    gc.collect()
    torch.cuda.empty_cache()
```

Then compute the latents with the prompt embeddings as inputs:

```python
pipe = PixArtAlphaPipeline.from_pretrained(
    "PixArt-alpha/PixArt-XL-2-1024-MS",
    text_encoder=None,
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,
).to("cuda")

latents = pipe(
    negative_prompt=None, 
    prompt_embeds=prompt_embeds,
    negative_prompt_embeds=negative_embeds,
    prompt_attention_mask=prompt_attention_mask,
    negative_prompt_attention_mask=negative_prompt_attention_mask,
    num_images_per_prompt=1,
    output_type="latent",
).images

del pipe.transformer
flush()
```

<Tip>

Notice that while initializing `pipe`, you're setting `text_encoder` to `None` so that it's not loaded.

</Tip>

Once the latents are computed, pass it off to the VAE to decode into a real image:

```python
with torch.no_grad():
    image = pipe.vae.decode(latents / pipe.vae.config.scaling_factor, return_dict=False)[0]
image = pipe.image_processor.postprocess(image, output_type="pil")

> image.save("cat.png")

Reviewer: I'm getting the following error, and I'm unable to save the image:

```py out
AttributeError                            Traceback (most recent call last)
[<ipython-input-7-7a4b72d36ecf>](https://localhost:8080/#) in <cell line: 4>()
      2     image = pipe.vae.decode(latents / pipe.vae.config.scaling_factor, return_dict=False)[0]
      3 image = pipe.image_processor.postprocess(image, output_type="pil")
----> 4 image.save("cat.png")

AttributeError: 'list' object has no attribute 'save'
```

```

By deleting components you aren't using and flushing the GPU VRAM, you should be able to run [`PixArtAlphaPipeline`] with under 8GB GPU VRAM.

![](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/pixart/8bits_cat.png)

If you want a report of your memory-usage, run this [script](https://gist.github.com/sayakpaul/3ae0f847001d342af27018a96f467e4e).

<Tip warning={true}>

Text embeddings computed in 8-bit can impact the quality of the generated images because of the information loss in the representation space caused by the reduced precision. It's recommended to compare the outputs with and without 8-bit.

</Tip>

> While loading the `text_encoder`, you set `load_in_8bit` to `True`. Instead of `load_in_8bit`, if you specify `load_in_4bit`, the memory requirements will be down under 7GB. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While loading the `text_encoder`, you set `load_in_8bit` to `True`. You could also specify `load_in_4bit` to bring your memory requirements down even further to under 7GB.
```
